my name is Charlie Harvey and
I work here at Port Elgin School
as a cultural support worker.
Indigenous cultural support worker.
My given name, my spirit name
that was given to me through a naming
ceremony is actually Derek Cebu Psalm one,
which means gentle river waters.
And I'm here today
to talk about indigenous education
and how it, is reflected
in the students identities in our school.
Okay, well, indigenous, culture is,
represented in this school
in different ways.
When you come in the building,
we have bulletin boards, and sometimes we
have mock teepees, or I'll put up displays
for certain, events that are happening
within the indigenous culture, like,
September 30th as every child matters.
We just had MMW yesterday or no Monday.
And, in other ways, we,
we do things within the school.
So I might go into classrooms
and do some medicine will teachings
or other teachings about the culture.
I'll take students one on one
or in small groups and then we learn
anything from language
to medicine, more teachings.
We have, the seven sacred teachings.
We do one every month
so that the entire school learns
about our teachings.
We do drum circles at lunchtime.
We also perform in the assemblies
and the concerts that they have.
We have we actually have, minimal
learning space outside that we can go to.
And there's a structure out there where
we're hoping to get a TV on, on premise,
to use as an outdoor classroom.
And we can go out and we can do smudging
and we can do different, outdoor
teachings.
Outdoor learning is really, really big
within the indigenous community
and culture.
So, there's a PBL going on right now.
That's,
that's focusing on indigenous culture,
talking about wampum belts
or learning about wampum
belts, the creation story
and other things like that.
So we're kind of like implementing a lot
of different teachings within the PBL.
And I take those
those students out to smudge as well.
So, I work alongside the teachers,
the faculty, the staff,
anything they need.
If if anybody wants question answers,
I can go into the classroom and help
teach about the culture that way
just to, you know, maybe take away
some misgivings that the students
might think about our culture.
So, yeah, there's a lot of different
facets that that we can
include culture in the school.
And this school is really inclusive
when it comes to that.
So, hello, my name is Bentley.
I’m in grade seven,
I go to Port Elgin school.
So I'm always talk about, smudging
and what it schemes for
and why people use it.
So why do people.
Why do we use it?
We use shade.
It's a different type of smudging.
It'll take all the negative away.
So trap all the negativity into the smoke
and it will go up to the creator.
And that will take care of it.
They go through your body.
It keeps your life calm.
Peaceful class is I love it.
It's magical.
And, it's used to add
all the positivity to you.
And it will be good for you.
And you can smudge your health as well.
What will take all the negativity away
and add on the positivity of you?
Speak. Glass. Yeah, yeah.
with the, with the two sides of the coin
having like
your indigenous students
and your non-Indigenous students,
and the indigenous students
that I work with, I share a language.
I share different, ceremonies with them.
I share like some are,
some are more sacred
that that are to be shared
like within the indigenous community,
not necessarily
with the non-Indigenous community.
So there's what I'm with.
My little groups of students
are one on one.
It can either be for like those kind
of teachings, like the deeper teachings.
Or it could be just a safe space
for them to come because they know that,
you know, culturally,
they're they're safe.
And, you know, in
the, in the cultural space.
But it also means like,
you know, how do I do make my way
through the week with the school?
So everybody in the school
is getting to learn the new language,
and it's giving connection
for the indigenous students
to actually talk to other students. Right.
And they're learning the words and
whatnot, and they're sharing the words.
And, so it gives the kids a sense of,
validation, even,
you know, within their culture.
And I think that, you know,
when they come in
and they say, Charlie, that being the word
of the day is, you know, up to,
you know, and that means welcome. There.
They're full of pride
when they're doing it, and they're smiling
because that's their culture.
That's them. That's who they are.
So when we're learning
about the medicine world teachings
and we're learning about all of these,
the other teachings that we do,
and they go out
and they share it with their friends.
Their friends
already have an idea in some aspects.
So it gives them more connection
within the school.
So I think that's a really important
part of, you know, allowing children
to know their identity. And
know it and share it,
you know, and, I think
as a, as a cultural support worker,
I can be I can be a helpful stepping stone
in that process.
And helping the kids to connect
with their culture and with everybody else
in the school as well.
So how this got started for me?
I was at a powwow and there were,
there was a support,
cultural support worker, actually,
Kevin, who's here today, he actually goes
to different schools and, teaches
what he, what his strengths are.
So he might or he might work on drums
or rattles or we're working on paddles,
in this segment.
And so he'll come and he'll work with
the students on some different projects.
But, I met him at a powwow, and,
he gave me a pamphlet on,
cultural support work, and I applied,
and this is how I started
the whole the whole process of,
coming into Jordan's principal, you know,
policies have made it possible
for Jordan's principal
to come in and support our work
in bringing culture to the students.
And connecting, connecting the students
with their identity.
And,
because college culture is a really big,
identification aspect for students.
And, we just had a cultural showcase
here last week,
and we had the drummers come in and all
the dancers with the different regalia,
and I made the ribbon skirts
and shirts for my students,
and they were able to go in there and they
they were so
like they were just so full of pride,
you know,
they got to the beat
at the ceremonial drum.
The guys did, and the girls got to dance
and they learned all the different dances.
And it was just it was so heartwarming
to see them, to watch them
within their own culture and connecting
to those, those aspects right.
So Jordan's principal
anglophones has made that possible,
you know,
through, through through the policies
and bringing in cultural support workers.